# Chapter 03

## 3.13 Secure C Programming

### Arithmetic Overflow

+ Adding integers can result in a value that’s too large to store in an `int` variable. This is known as __arithmetic overflow__ and can cause unpredictable __runtime behavior__, possibly leaving a system _open to attack_.

+ The _maximum_ and _minimum_ values that can be stored in an `int` variable are represented by the constants `INT_MAX` and `INT_MIN`, respectively, from the header `<limits.h>`.

+ It’s considered good practice to ensure that arithmetic calculations will not overflow before you perform them. In industrial-strength code, you should perform checks for all calculations that can result in overflow or underflow.

For an example, see the CERT website. <https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/display/c/> Search for guideline INT32-C

### scanf_s and printf_s

+ The __C11 standard’s__ _Annex K_ introduces __more secure versions__ of `printf` and `scanf` called `printf_s` and `scanf_s`. _Annex K_ is designated as optional, so not every C compiler vendor will implement it.

+ Microsoft implemented its own versions of `printf_s` and `scanf_s` before the __C11 standard__ and began issuing warnings for every `scanf` call. The warnings say that `scanf` is deprecated it should no longer be used—and that you should consider using `scanf_s` instead.

+ Many organizations have coding standards that require code to compile without warning messages. There are two ways to eliminate Visual C++’s `scanf` warnings. You can either __start using scanf_s__ immediately or __disable this warning message__.
